A2/README.md, before:

# Assignment 2: Document Similarity using MapReduce

**Name:** 

**Student ID:** 

## Approach and Implementation

### Mapper Design
[Explain the logic of your Mapper class. What is its input key-value pair? What does it emit as its output key-value pair? How does it help in solving the overall problem?]

### Reducer Design
[Explain the logic of your Reducer class. What is its input key-value pair? How does it process the values for a given key? What does it emit as the final output? How do you calculate the Jaccard Similarity here?]

### Overall Data Flow
[Describe how data flows from the initial input files, through the Mapper, shuffle/sort phase, and the Reducer to produce the final output.]

---

## Setup and Execution

### ` Note: The below commands are the ones used for the Hands-on. You need to edit these commands appropriately towards your Assignment to avoid errors. `

### 1. **Start the Hadoop Cluster**

Run the following command to start the Hadoop cluster:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### 2. **Build the Code**

Build the code using Maven:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

### 4. **Copy JAR to Docker Container**

Copy the JAR file to the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker cp target/WordCountUsingHadoop-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 5. **Move Dataset to Docker Container**

Copy the dataset to the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker cp shared-folder/input/data/input.txt resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 6. **Connect to Docker Container**

Access the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker exec -it resourcemanager /bin/bash
```

Navigate to the Hadoop directory:

```bash
cd /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 7. **Set Up HDFS**

Create a folder in HDFS for the input dataset:

```bash
hadoop fs -mkdir -p /input/data
```

Copy the input dataset to the HDFS folder:

```bash
hadoop fs -put ./input.txt /input/data
```

### 8. **Execute the MapReduce Job**

Run your MapReduce job using the following command: Here I got an error saying output already exists so I changed it to output1 instead as destination folder

```bash
hadoop jar /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/WordCountUsingHadoop-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar com.example.controller.Controller /input/data/input.txt /output1
```

### 9. **View the Output**

To view the output of your MapReduce job, use:

```bash
hadoop fs -cat /output1/*
```

### 10. **Copy Output from HDFS to Local OS**

To copy the output from HDFS to your local machine:

1. Use the following command to copy from HDFS:
    ```bash
    hdfs dfs -get /output1 /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
    ```

2. use Docker to copy from the container to your local machine:
   ```bash
   exit 
   ```
    ```bash
    docker cp resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/output1/ shared-folder/output/
    ```
3. Commit and push to your repo so that we can able to see your output


---

## Challenges and Solutions

[Describe any challenges you faced during this assignment. This could be related to the algorithm design (e.g., how to generate pairs), implementation details (e.g., data structures, debugging in Hadoop), or environmental issues. Explain how you overcame these challenges.]

---
## Sample Input

**Input from `small_dataset.txt`**
```
Document1 This is a sample document containing words
Document2 Another document that also has words
Document3 Sample text with different words
```
## Sample Output

**Output from `small_dataset.txt`**
```
"Document1, Document2 Similarity: 0.56"
"Document1, Document3 Similarity: 0.42"
"Document2, Document3 Similarity: 0.50"
```
## Obtained Output: (Place your obtained output here.)

Commit message:

started working on README and added logic to ensure that we lowercase all inputs

A2/README.md, after:

# Assignment 2: Document Similarity using MapReduce

**Name: Nicholas Cassarino** 

**Student ID: 801177054** 

## Approach and Implementation

### Mapper and Reducer Design
My Implementation of a 'Document Similarity using MapReduce' utilizes two Mappers and Reducers. The first Mapper is present in DocumentSimilarityMapper.java. Here we take in our input which is shaped like this:

```
Document1 This is a sample document containing words
Document2 Another document that also has words
Document3 Sample text with different words
```

 and we map the first word of each line to be the documentID or key in our key-value pair. Then we create a HashSet of all the other words in our line to eliminate all duplicates. Then we one by one create a key value pair for each unique word in each line/document.

```
(this, Document1)
(is, Document1)
...
(different, Document3)
(words, Document3)
```

### Reducer Design
[Explain the logic of your Reducer class. What is its input key-value pair? How does it process the values for a given key? What does it emit as the final output? How do you calculate the Jaccard Similarity here?]

### Overall Data Flow
[Describe how data flows from the initial input files, through the Mapper, shuffle/sort phase, and the Reducer to produce the final output.]

---

## Setup and Execution

### ` Note: The below commands are the ones used for the Hands-on. You need to edit these commands appropriately towards your Assignment to avoid errors. `

### 1. **Start the Hadoop Cluster**

Run the following command to start the Hadoop cluster:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### 2. **Build the Code**

Build the code using Maven:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

### 4. **Copy JAR to Docker Container**

Copy the JAR file to the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker cp target/DocumentSimilarity-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 5. **Move Dataset to Docker Container**

Copy the dataset to the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker cp shared-folder/input/data/dataset_<size>.txt resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 6. **Connect to Docker Container**

Access the Hadoop ResourceManager container:

```bash
docker exec -it resourcemanager /bin/bash
```

Navigate to the Hadoop directory:

```bash
cd /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
```

### 7. **Set Up HDFS**

Create a folder in HDFS for the input dataset:

```bash
hadoop fs -mkdir -p /input/data
```

Copy the input dataset to the HDFS folder:

```bash
hadoop fs -put ./dataset_<data_size>.txt /input/data
```

### 8. **Execute the MapReduce Job**

Run your MapReduce job using the following command: Here I got an error saying output already exists so I changed it to output1 instead as destination folder

```bash
hadoop jar /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/DocumentSimilarity-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar com.example.controller.DocumentSimilarityDriver /input/data/input.txt /interm1 /output1
```

### 9. **View the Output**

To view the output of your MapReduce job, use:

```bash
hadoop fs -cat /output1/*
```

### 10. **Copy Output from HDFS to Local OS**

To copy the output from HDFS to your local machine:

1. Use the following command to copy from HDFS:
    ```bash
    hdfs dfs -get /output1 /opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/
    ```

2. use Docker to copy from the container to your local machine:
   ```bash
   exit 
   ```
    ```bash
    docker cp resourcemanager:/opt/hadoop-3.2.1/share/hadoop/mapreduce/output1/ shared-folder/output/
    ```
3. Commit and push to your repo so that we can able to see your output


---

## Challenges and Solutions

[Describe any challenges you faced during this assignment. This could be related to the algorithm design (e.g., how to generate pairs), implementation details (e.g., data structures, debugging in Hadoop), or environmental issues. Explain how you overcame these challenges.]

---
## Sample Input

**Input from `small_dataset.txt`**
```
Document1 This is a sample document containing words
Document2 Another document that also has words
Document3 Sample text with different words
```
## Sample Output

**Output from `small_dataset.txt`**
```
"Document1, Document2 Similarity: 0.56"
"Document1, Document3 Similarity: 0.42"
"Document2, Document3 Similarity: 0.50"
```
## Obtained Output: (Place your obtained output here.)
